About us

Competenz is one of New Zealand’s work based learning organisations. We arrange training for apprenticeships and other on-the-job qualifications, supporting employers, job seekers and people with jobs in our industries. We are a business division within Te Pūkenga Work Based Learning Limited. 

We work with more than 3,500 companies and 12,000 learners in 37 industries around New Zealand each year to build skills, careers and businesses. To do this, we partner with employers, apprentices, schools, training providers and assessors across the country. 

 

Tailored training

Our account managers are specialists in their fields. They work with companies to build training plans tailored to their businesses – then help their learners gain skills in the workplace. 

Making the learning happen

Our Competenz team:

 * provides training materials and eLearning
 * visits workplaces to check on progress
 * arranges for learners to complete any off-job training they need (e.g. at a polytechnic)
 * assesses (or arrange assessments) to confirm learners have built their skills
 * moderates assessments to make sure they are fair, valid and consistent across the country
 * registers learners’ success with the New Zealand Qualifications Authority.

Supporting our industries

We also support our industries in many ways, including promoting careers in these industries, sponsoring industry events like conferences and competitions, offering scholarships and celebrating learners’ success.

Why train?

Training is an effective way to build the skills New Zealand businesses and New Zealanders need to get ahead in an increasingly competitive world.

Building competitive, safe businesses

Training helps businesses build the skills needed to:

 * operate productively and safely
 * lift quality, and reduce downtime and waste 
 * increase employee confidence, satisfaction and loyalty.

All that means a more competitive New Zealand.

Building rewarding careers

Employees doing apprenticeships and traineeships benefit too. By gaining skills they’re gaining opportunities: to advance their career, increase their earnings, learn new things, and maybe even own their own business and train their own employees one day.

Training on-the-job has added benefits

Training in the workplace with the nationally recognised qualifications Competenz supports is an effective way to build skills. Employees:

 * learn using their workplace equipment and processes – so the learning’s relevant to the business they work in 
 * gain skills that meet industry standards and qualifications that are recognised across New Zealand
 * learn in the workplace – meaning few absences and little downtime.

Supporting our industries

We partner with industry associations, employers and others in our industries to help recruit and build talented employees. This support includes promoting careers, identifying potential apprentices, and encouraging work placements.

We also ensure our industries' qualifications continue to meet their needs, offer scholarships to encourage higher learning, support industry events like conferences, and regularly celebrate learners’ success.

The code of good practice for New Zealand apprenticeships

The three parties to a New Zealand Apprenticeship

There are three parties to a New Zealand Apprenticeship - the apprentice, employer and industry training organisation. Each has unique responsibilities.

The responsibilities of the apprentice are to work and learn. The responsibilities of the employer are to train and support the apprentice. The responsibilities of the industry training organisation are to facilitate the training and support both the apprentice and the employer throughout the apprenticeship.

Read more about the responsibilities of each party

Investment Plan

View our Investment Plan

NZQA external evaluation and review

View our NZQA external evaluation and review