Develop your workforce

Is your business future-ready? 

We are in a new era of change and an adaptable workforce is the best asset you can have. The right capability can open up massive opportunities for your business. You may already have ambitious plans. So how do you build capability? By giving staff the opportunity to turn hidden talents into new skills.

But it’s hard to know where to start, or even where to turn for advice. That’s where Competenz can help. We’re your industry training partner, turning talent into capability.

Training designed for your business

If you’re looking to build your team’s skills, we can help. We can spot the talent you already have or find you new learners. We can customise a training plan that meets the needs of your business and support your teams to get nationally recognised qualifications.

Reskill, upskill or new skills?

The people your business needs for the future could be out there, waiting for you to meet them and train them. Or they might already be in your business, wanting to pursue new opportunities. Either way, our training programmes help your employees gain the skills they need to work productively and safely.

They could complete an apprenticeship after three or four years of on-the-job study, or earn an NZQA-recognised New Zealand or National Certificate. But what they are ultimately bringing to your business is potential.

Why apprenticeship training?

 * Grow your business with a qualified workforce
 * Upskill and reskill your best people
 * Develop talent that matches your needs
 * See a value return that outweighs the cost
 * Lower your recruitment costs and maximise your profit
 * Train on the job to minimise disruption and maximise impact.

How we work with you

We build a training plan to support your business

Our account managers or training advisors work with you to understand your business and the skills you need for success. Then they agree to a tailored training plan with you to help your employees gain those skills. Most of this learning takes place on the job.

We support your employees as they learn

We provide training materials and online learning, visit your workplace to check on progress, and arrange for your employees to complete any off-job training they need.

We confirm your employees' new skills

We arrange assessments to confirm your employees have built their skills, and register their success with the New Zealand Qualifications Authority.

Training programmes

Our customised training programmes help your employees grow new strengths, gaining skills and knowledge that have been endorsed by industry.

Training programmes can be apprenticeships (3-4 years), or short programmes and traineeships (6-18 months) that may result in a New Zealand Certificate, a qualification recognised on the New Zealand Qualifications Framework.

Our account managers or training advisors will work with you to explain our training programmes and develop a training plan, to meet the specific skills your business needs to build its future success.

National certificates and New Zealand certificates

Better for everyone

A trade qualification shows your employees have the right training to do their job. With a nationally recognised qualification, they gain valuable skills and you know those skills meet the standards expected in your industry.

Competenz offers two sets of nationally recognised qualifications: New Zealand Certificates and National Certificates.

Why are there two sets of qualifications?

We have worked closely with our industries to develop the New Zealand Certificates, which meet the changing needs of employers. They are a reviewed and updated replacement for the older National Certificates. However, the government and our industries continue to recognise the National Certificates as valid, relevant qualifications.

How are the qualifications nationally recognised?

New Zealand Certificates and National Certificates are listed on the New Zealand Qualifications Framework. The New Zealand Qualifications Authority (NZQA) is the government agency managing these qualifications on behalf of New Zealand industries.

The code of good practice for New Zealand apprenticeships

You, the apprentice, and us

There are three parties to a New Zealand Apprenticeship - the apprentice, the employer, and an industry training organisation like Competenz. Each party has unique responsibilities.

The apprentice is expected to work and learn. The employer is expected to train and support the apprentice. Our responsibility as a training organisation is to facilitate the training, and support both you and your apprentice throughout the apprenticeship.

Read more about the responsibilities of each party.

