Fire Protection Engineer

What do they do?

Fire protection engineers deal with fire safety equipment used in commercial buildings. They survey, select, install, commission and maintain head-operated firefighting equipment and protection and detection systems.

A typical day

Sometimes an eight-hour day; sometimes on shift work rosters or on call.

Work can include discussing clients' fire protection needs and surveying their fire risks as well as selecting, commissioning and maintaining firefighting and fire safety equipment (from hand-operated tools to entire protection and/or detection systems).

Sound like you?

Study areas

 * English or Media or History
 * Maths or Accounting or Economics
 * Sciences or Workshop Technologies
 * Computing/ICT/Information Management.

Attributes

 * Strong eye for detail
 * Confidence with IT, computers, technology
 * Good work habits/time management
 * Good at problem solving/creative.

Helpful experience

 * Customer service or helping people
 * Making or fixing things.

Preferred work environments

 * Inside (retail or shop)
 * Inside (office environment)
 * Inside (workshop or plant)
 * Lots of different places every day.

Pathway

School

These can be useful from school:

Ideally NCEA Level 2 in:

 * Maths
 * Science (physics)
 * Technology (metal work)
 * English.

Entry level jobs

Apprenticeship

 * Fire Protection Engineer

Advancing jobs

Higher learning

 * Team Leader
 * Supervisor.

Senior jobs

Higher learning

 * Business Manager
 * Business Owner

Qualifications available

New Zealand Certificate in Passive Fire Protection Installation, Level 3

The purpose of this entry-level qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry with installers who have the skills and knowledge to install passive fire protection systems and components.

This qualification aims to benefit building owners and occupiers, the insurance sector, and the general public by providing skilled people who will be responsible for ensuring the correct and compliant installation of passive fire protection systems.

Graduates will be capable of operating at a technical level of work under limited supervision.

New Zealand Certificate in Hand Operated Fire Fighting Equipment, Level 3

The purpose of this entry-level qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry with people who have the skills and knowledge to install and maintain hand operated fire fighting equipment.

Graduates will work under limited supervision, and in accordance with the New Zealand Building Code, current Standards, regulations and ordinances, and other internationally accepted standards.

New Zealand Certificate in Fixed Fire Protection Systems, Level 3

The purpose of this entry-level qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry with installers and fitters who have the skills and knowledge to install fixed fire protection systems hardware.

Graduates will work under limited supervision and in accordance with the New Zealand Building Code, current Standards, regulations and ordinances, and other internationally accepted standards.

   

New Zealand Certificate in Fire Detection and Alarm Systems, Level 3

The purpose of this entry-level qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry with installers and fitters who have the skills and knowledge to install fire detection and alarm system hardware.

Graduates will work under limited supervision and in accordance with the New Zealand Building Code, current Standards, regulations and ordinances, and other internationally accepted Standards.

New Zealand Certificate in Fire Protection Systems Technology (Testing), Level 3

The purpose of this entry-level qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry with testers who have the skills and knowledge to test active fire protection systems (fire detection and alarm systems and fixed fire protection systems). 

Graduates will work under limited supervision, and in accordance with the New Zealand Building Code, current Standards, regulations and ordinances, and other internationally accepted standards.

     

New Zealand Certificate in Passive Fire Protection Systems, Level 4

The purpose of this qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry and the Building Sector with competent inspectors of buildings in relation to passive fire protection.
Graduates will work in accordance with the New Zealand Building Act, New Zealand Building Code, and regulations.

This qualification aims to benefit building owners and occupiers, the insurance sector, and the general public by providing skilled people (Independent Qualified Person (IQPs) and inspectors) who will be responsible for ensuring passive fire protection systems are compliant with the relevant Building Consent and Compliance Schedule.

Completion of this qualification is recognised by a number of Territorial Authorities as one of the criteria for registration of IQPs. An IQP (in passive fire protection system) is a person whom the local Territorial Authority has confirmed as qualified to inspect, maintain and report on passive fire protection system in accordance with the requirements, and to certify that these procedures have been followed.

     

New Zealand Certificate in Fire Detection and Alarm Systems, Level 4

The purpose of this qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry with tradespeople/technicians who have the skills and knowledge to design, install, commission, maintain, and service fire detection and alarm systems and associated equipment.

Graduates will work in accordance with the New Zealand Building Code, current Standards, regulations and ordinances, and other internationally accepted standards.

     

New Zealand Certificate in Fire Protection Systems Technology (Inspections), Level 4

The purpose of this qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry with inspectors who have the skills and knowledge to test and inspect active fire protection systems.

The qualification includes two strands - graduates will either specialise in inspection of fire detection and alarm systems; or inspection of fixed fire protection systems.

Graduates will work in accordance with the New Zealand Building Code, current Standards, regulations and ordinances, and other internationally accepted Standards.

     

New Zealand Certificate in Fixed Fire Protection Systems with an optional strand in Special Hazards Fixed Fire Protection Systems, Level 4

The purpose of this qualification is to provide the Fire Protection industry with tradespeople/technicians with the skills and knowledge to plan, install, commission, maintain, and service fixed fire protection systems and associated equipment. 

Graduates will work in accordance with the New Zealand Building Code, current Standards, regulations and ordinances, and other internationally accepted Standards.

The qualification includes an optional strand to provide the additional skills and knowledge required to undertake work relating to special hazards fixed fire protection systems.

     