Free apprenticeships and traineeships

All apprenticeships, plus traineeships* in targeted areas listed below, are free from 01 July 2020 to 31 December 2022, even for those currently enrolled in training, under the Government’s Targeted Training and Apprenticeship Fund (TTAF).

* Fees free traineeship funding may differ depending on training delivery. Please speak to your Competenz training advisor or account manager on the programme and mode of delivery.

 

Already enrolled in training or have employees that are enrolled?

There is no paperwork to complete if you are enrolled in any apprenticeship or an eligible traineeship in the sectors listed above. Your fees will be automatically covered from 01 July 2020 to 31 December 2022.

Am I eligible for a refund for provider/trainer training fees for TTAF eligible programmes?

Find out if you are eligible to claim reimbursement for fees you have paid to a trainer or provider for TTAF eligible programmes.

Reimbursements

Fees already covered by the Government’s pre-existing fees-free scheme?

No problem, for all eligible programmes your fees will now be automatically covered from 01 July 2020 to 31 December by the TTAF, you will be able to access your remaining fees-free entitlement on future study after this period, or any current training not covered by the new fund.

How do I sign up for free training?

If you are not already in an apprenticeship or industry training, check out our website to find out about industries that interest you. You will need to be in paid employment before starting on an apprenticeship. We have exciting opportunities available now on our job board.

If you are currently employed as an apprentice or doing a traineeship in one of our targeted sectors, then your fees will be automatically covered. 

How do I sign up my employees for free training?

If you currently employ apprentices or trainees in a targeted sector listed below, then you don't need to do anything. Competenz will automatically apply the free fees to invoices for eligible learners.  

To sign up new learners for these free training opportunities, please contact our customer service team on 0800 526 1800 or use the 'Get in contact' form.

Sign up an employee

Need help with recruitment?

We have great candidates looking for roles now. Let us help you find a fees-free apprentice or trainee today. Contact our Recruitment Executive Brenda James and she will find you the right person.

Recruit an apprentice

 

What are the targeted sectors eligible for free traineeships?

Free apprenticeships are available across all sectors and the fund also covers level 3 to 7 New Zealand Certificate targeted traineeships and micro credentials in these sectors:

Manufacturing, Engineering and Technology

Manufacturing Engineering

Food and Beverage Processing

Fire Protection 

Printing

Signmaking

Packaging

Textile Making

Plastics Processing Technology

Footwear Making

Wood Machining and Turning

Cabinet Making

Furniture Upholstery and Renovation

Furniture Polishing

Manufacturing Engineering and Technology not elsewhere classified.

Process and Resources Engineering

Wood Based Manufacturing

Pulp and Paper

Materials Engineering

Ceramics, Industrial Glass and Rubber Manufacturing

Food (excluding Seafood) Processing Technology

Cellar ops

Painting and Coatings

Process and Resources Engineering not elsewhere classified.

Mechanical and Industrial Engineering and Technology

Mechanical Engineering

Industrial Engineering

Toolmaking

Metal Fitting, Turning and Machining

Sheetmetal Working

Boiler-making and Welding

Metal Casting and Pattern Making

Precision Metalworking

Plant and Machine Operations

Mechanical and Industrial Engineering & Technology not elsewhere classified

Refrigeration, Heating and Air Conditioning.

Forestry

Forestry 

Silviculture and Harvesting

Solid Wood Processing

Wood based Manufacturing.

 

The fund also covers level 2 New Zealand Certificate targeted traineeships in these sectors:

Food and Beverage Processing
Forestry
Furniture
Manufacturing
Packaging
Plastics
Wood Manufacturing

I've already paid training costs.

Reimbursements

