Micro-credentials

Micro-credentials are between 5 to 40 credits, consist of one or more unit standards and, just like a qualification, are nationally recognised and registered with NZQA.

Who should do a micro-credential?

Micro-credentials are a great option for existing employees who need to upskill in a certain area. They support:

 * Ongoing professional development
 * Retraining or training in a new skill (such as new technology)
 * Progression to further education and training.

Our latest releases

Digital Skills for Manufacturing

The Digital Skills for Manufacturing micro-credential gives workers the essential skills required to confidently use digital technology in a manufacturing workplace.

It will prepare them for the future of work, as the New Zealand manufacturing industry adapts to Industry 4.0*.

Register here

Sustainable Practices in Manufacturing

The Sustainable Practices in Manufacturing Micro-credential will provide workers with the knowledge underpinning sustainable practices in a manufacturing environment. It will target learners who have a role in, or are interested in, sustainable practices in the manufacturing sector.

The programme will provide a starting point for workplaces to demonstrate a defined commitment towards sustainability awareness.

Register here

Plant plantation trees

A single unit micro-credential made up of the planting unit.

Forestry environment

Made up of three key units required by many forest management companies. These units form the basis of most of our full qualification programmes and therefore provide a solid pathway into longer programmes.

Chainsaw use

A micro-credential suitable for all entry-level chainsaw users in production forestry operations.

Demonstrate basic chainsaw operation

A micro-credential programme suitable for chainsaw users who are not working in a production forestry operation. This covers basic chainsaw usage. This programme is not eligible for the Targeted Training and Apprenticeship Fund (TTAF).